>> Ladies and
gentlemen, Freddy Silva.
[APPLAUSE]
>>FREDDY SILVA:
Thank you everybody.
I'm not a conspiracy
theorist but since we're
talking about the
Knights Templar,
it's funny I got food
poisoning two days ago.
No one expects the
holy inquisition.
But here I am.
Oh, that was weird.
No, it's funny because
people keep asking me,
you have a very broad range
of interests in subjects.
You go from crop
circles to sacred sites
to resurrection to Templars.
And you think, what's
the connection?
I actually didn't know
until I actually stood back
from all of this and
looked at it in vitro
and realized that yes, there
is a connection between all
of these subjects.
And that is that
it's all to do what
in ancient times used to be
called the ancient mysteries,
or the ancient mystery secrets.
All of these subjects are
related and tied together
by that.
And these are secrets that
people back in the day
would lay down their lives for.
And sometimes many actually
did lay down their lives
to protect these secrets.
Not because they were
necessarily secret,
it's just because the
information that they contained
was of such a nature
that it gave you
a sense of self empowerment.
And back in the time, let's
say about 1,800 years ago when
the church was rising to
its dominancy in Europe,
this was a great challenge
to the status quo.
Because when you
have someone who
wants to control a certain
method of thinking,
it basically outlaws
anything that falls outside
of it's own sphere of belief.
So you would be
called a heretic.
Now, if you find yourself a
good present before Christmas,
get yourself a really
good book on etymology,
especially the "Oxford English
Dictionary on Etymology"
from about the 1800s.
And look up heretic.
It means someone in
possession of the facts who
is able to choose.
And that's just the beginning.
Look up whore, midwife,
occult. And the list
gets even stranger.
It's funny how all of
these sacred things
get turned upside down
by the winner isn't it?
So here we are today with
another strange connection
with a story.
And it's all about the Templars.
And I'm actually going to beg
a certain forgiveness from you.
It's a very intense
presentation.
It took me 15 years to
sort out this story.
I thought I was just
writing a small book
about the history of my
original country of birth,
which is Portugal.
And you can really tell
by the accent by the way.
It's part of the witness
protection program
which I'm still--
I'm now also an American
citizen just to confuse things.
So they like to keep
me moving around a bit.
And I thought, this would be
a nice little easy subject,
how the Templars got involved
with my country of birth.
And then something happened,
a piece of information
which took me to Harvard.
I had to go and beg on
my knees to go to Harvard
to use their library.
You can't just go in there
as a member of the public
and just use the
Harvard Library.
You have to go through
certain protocols.
And then they won't let
you unless you're actually
a part of the actual community.
And even then, you'd be
very lucky if they even
let you even sniff the door.
And somehow by an extraordinary
set of coincidences
they let me in.
I found these books written
in original pen on, not paper,
but back then they used
to use animal skin.
And these books, you
can't even find these
in the archives in Portugal.
And I have no idea.
Harvard has no idea how
they ended up there.
And it was in these books
that I found something
somewhere on page 680 because
they didn't have indexes
back then.
You know, you're looking for
the one piece of information
that just sets the
whole project alight.
And you've gone through
the whole 600 pages
and you're going,
where is this going?
And suddenly you go hello,
that shouldn't be there.
How come we didn't
know about this.
And the next thing you know,
what should be a small project
ends up being a 15 year
study of the Templars,
the origin of the Templars,
and something that history
has never really put together.
So this is what I'm
going to be doing today.
And it's funny because
the Templars are also
a challenge to our modern
way of perceiving things.
I was at Laguardia Airport
yesterday grabbing some lunch.
And the irony just hit me.
I was sitting at a table.
There's an iPad
bolted at a table.
I'm not looking for
a waiter or waitress.
There's nobody around.
You have to do everything
on this screen.
You order on the screen.
The food comes.
You pay with a card.
People are sitting there
attached to their iPads.
The kids are playing blackjack
on the iPads, and they're five.
And people are totally
engrossed in Kindles and things.
And I'm thinking, we're looking
for this instant gratification
today.
And yet here's a subject that's
going to demand even today
your total full attention.
Because as you probably
well know, in order
to get something out of life,
nothing really comes that easy.
You have to put
an effort into it.
So you are going to
be part of this today.
You're going to get
a hell of a headache.
And to try and ease
things a little bit,
I've put up 150 pictures
to go with this.
So it will make it
a little bit easier.
So here's the core
of what I'm trying
to get at today, the fact that
the search for enlightenment
and self empowerment and
the mystery of the soul
isn't necessarily a
modern preoccupation.
This is something we're
striving for today.
But it's odd to think that
a group of warrior monks
back in the 12th
century were looking
for exactly the same thing.
And it was a preoccupation
for a small group of nobles
and monks, many of them
were really not very high
ranking at all.
In fact, they weren't
even that well-known.
There seems to be
a sort of sideline
in the history of the period.
And it's a surprise
to me because
of what we know
about the Templars
that these people should have
been involved with something
incredibly spiritual.
We seem to get the
opposite side of the story
because all we get
about the Templars is
that they went to Jerusalem to
liberate the holy sepulcher.
And they were doing a lot
of fighting with the Arabs.
Nothing could be
different from the truth.
In fact, most of
them didn't actually
do any fighting at all.
They actually worked like
a ministerial college,
very different.
So the first thing we need to
do is separate the crusaders
from the Templars.
The two are not the same thing.
So to try and solve
this complex story,
I've broken it into two parts.
The first part of
this morning, I
want to talk about the
biggest secrets which
also happens to be the
least known accomplishment.
And I cannot believe that it's
taken an alternative author
and researcher to actually
figure this out when the facts
are all there.
I guess it always takes someone
from the outside looking in
to see the bigger picture.
It's just the way it is.
But it's a huge accomplishment.
And the second part
of the presentation, I
wanted to find
out what motivated
them to do this accomplishment.
What was behind their
whole motivation?
And how does it
relate to the most
secret of spiritual rituals?
Something that has been going
on for at least 5,000 years,
and it sort of culminates
with a very interesting fellow
called Jesus Christ who
gets all the credit for it.
But he wasn't the center
of the attention at all
as we'll find out.
And of course, what
if anything does
it have to do with the Grail.
Because as soon as you start
scratching the Templars,
you can't but help
touch the Grail itself.
But what is the Grail all about?
What really is the
whole story behind that?
And I do promise
you, there are not
going to be any Monty Python
jokes all the way through this.
The guy-- no one expects
the holy inquisition, right?
Don't get me started.
I might not be
feeling that well,
but I'm still quite punchy.
Now, in case you're not
familiar with the story.
Here's the popular
version of how
the Templar story came about.
We're in Jerusalem in 1118.
The Christians have
just basically taken
over from the Arabs,
and Saracens and Turks
and all other local people the
proprietorship of the town.
And on a particular day,
the king of Jerusalem
receives a visit from two men
dressed in very plain clothing,
two minor nobles that no
one's ever heard of and no one
really should care about.
And their names are Hugues
de Payens and Godfrey
de Saint-Omer.
And whatever these two
men pitch to the King,
they pitch them
a wonderful story
because the king of Jerusalem
suddenly says, oh, absolutely.
Of course, I'll give up
my house on the Temple
Mount, the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
And I'll move out of there
and let you guys move in.
And you start reading
this, and you think,
something here
doesn't quite add up.
And from that very
moment on, these two men
dressed in very old clothing
bring in seven of their buddies
and they move into
these quarters.
And from thereafter are
known as the Knights Templar.
What a strange start
to a bizarre story.
The official reason
is even more bizarre.
Because you probably know
that the official story
behind the forming
of the Templars
was to protect the 33 mile
pilgrim trail which back then
went from Jaffa on
the coast of what
was then Palestine to Jerusalem.
When they finished
protecting the pilgrim trail,
they then returned
to Europe under very
mysterious circumstances to
become the richest organization
of the period.
I mean, I think their
total combined accounts
totalled something like $2
billion in today's money.
It was something
extraordinary back then.
It was unthinkable.
And that pretty much
is the accepted version
of events surrounding
the birth and the purpose
of the Templars.
They were there to
protect the pilgrim path.
They made a lot of money.
They went back to
Europe, end of story.
And then as we know, a couple
of centuries later the church
decided to take them out
along with the King of France.
And they basically
went underground.
They disappeared,
vanished from history.
Well, there is absolutely
no evidence at all
that these nine
men ever patrolled
such a long dangerous
road between sea and city.
In fact, they hardly
spent any time outside
of Temple Mount itself.
And considering that you have
nine men patrolling 33 miles
from brigands, very
annoyed Arabs who just lost
their lands, mountain lions, and
all kinds of nefarious people
trying to steal
money from pilgrims,
this story sounds a
little bit strange.
It almost sounds
like a smokescreen.
Even more so when you consider
that the policing of that trail
had already been undertaken for
30 years prior to the Templars
by another group called
the Knights Hospitallers.
And they had been formed several
decades before the Templars.
In fact, the two
organizations later
went on to work with each other.
What happened was that the
Templars, these nine men
supposedly spent all of their
time secreted on Temple Mount,
doing what?
Well, they spent all their
time digging tunnels.
And that's been proven
in the last 30 years
by Israeli archeologists.
They even found some of
their artifacts still buried
in some of these
tunnels that they
dug in a radial pattern
from a certain location
as though they were trying to
find something very specific.
They had a fair idea where
it was but not quite exactly.
So one has to question the
logic of this entire story.
Why would nine rich nobles give
up all their wealth, travel
1,500 miles across Europe,
across very treacherous terrain
back then to sit in Jerusalem
in hot humid putrid conditions,
digging tunnels under very
unpleasant circumstances
to find a wealth of treasure?
It would have been easier
just to sit at home
in their former counties
of Burgundy and Lorraine,
what is today
Belgium, and sit there
with their inherited wealth
and have a quiet happy life.
Men just don't give
up their wealth
to dig tunnels and become rich.
It doesn't add up.
So again, the idea
that a smokescreen
was set up behind the
Templars is very evident.
What happens next is
even more bizarre.
In 1121, apparently they
found a very mysterious scroll
hidden on the Temple Mount.
And this scroll was
given safe passage
all the way through the
lands of central Europe
all the way to
southern Belgium to be
decrypted by a cryptographer
called Lambert de Saint-Omer.
Now, why would you
need a cryptographer
to decrypt a scroll that was
found on the Temple Mount?
Another mystery in itself.
At the end of 1125, they
discovered something else
of considerable importance.
Because suddenly they
all hastily begin
to pack up their
meager belongings
and then return back to Europe.
After that they are
formally sanctioned
by the pope in a very bizarre
conference where they actually
weren't even top of the agenda.
And at that moment at
the Council of Troyes,
the famous Council
of Troyes, they
become sanctioned by the pope.
And they are basically
given the fact
that they can
proceed as planned,
and they are given the whole
blessing of the church,
even though the
Templars themselves
were no friends of the
church to begin with.
You see how funny this
story is becoming?
Then you have the fact that
the place where they actually
were sanctioned was
the town of Troyes.
Coincidentally, it happens
to be the same town where
a few years later
a poet sat down
to write the most famous
grail story of all time.
So you start piecing
all these bits together,
and you think, there's
something more going
on here than meets the eye.
There's something
much more interesting.
And so this is where I
begin to sort of jump in.
I wanted to find out,
is there another story
that's going on there?
One that is even more incredible
but also more credible.
Because the facts so
far are very jumbled up,
and they don't seem
to make any sense.
Well, it turns out that
seven years before taking up
residence on Temple
Mount, the proto Templars
were already present
and materially active
in another land 2,000 miles
to the west of Jerusalem,
on the other opposite side of
Jerusalem in this little town
called Porto Cale.
It's the area that's
known today as Portugal.
Of course, back then, none
of this stuff even existed.
These names don't exist.
So what are these Templar
Knights doing so far
on the other side of Europe?
They shouldn't even be there.
In fact, there's no
evidence they ever
existed outside of Jerusalem.
The other thing
to keep in mind is
that by design this
previously known enterprise
that I discovered became
their greatest accomplishment.
Because what they were
doing in this little county
on the far side of Europe
was that they were creating
Europe's first nation state.
Another first that is never
mentioned in history books.
So with these ideas
in mind, I'm now
going to reveal another unknown
chapter in the Templar history.
And I want do so
starting with symbols.
Because symbols are so much fun.
They're mysterious.
And anything that's mysterious
always gets our curiosity.
And secret societies,
they love their symbols
because just like parables
to the casual viewer,
they convey one message.
While to the initiate
of the mysteries,
they can conceal another.
And in a world of corrupt
clergymen and kings,
symbols prove to be the most
safest method of transmitting
important ideas, or for
initiates to also exchange
signals with one another.
And in this respect, the
Templars were no different.
And if you look at their
buildings, their talismans,
and their seals, their lives
encoded with symbolic language,
and it's timeless.
It's full of secrets.
But to someone who is actually
immersed in the mysteries,
it can be as easy to
unravel as a nursery rhyme.
Take this symbol for example.
Some of you are probably
familiar with it.
It's the famous seal
of a Templar showing
the two knights who
are so poor that they
had to ride one horse.
Any historian worth
his money will
know that this is
such a stupid idea.
If you go into battle with
two guys riding on a horse,
it's going to slow you down.
You're going to get
shot with an arrow.
It doesn't work.
It doesn't really add up.
And the fact is that these
people weren't poor anyway.
There were wealthy
to begin with.
They gave up their money
and they put it in a trust.
So they weren't poor
knights to begin with.
They pooled their resources
and put it in a trust
so others could benefit from
their cause, another mystery.
The truth behind the
symbol is that you
have two knights
riding the horse,
is that it represents
the duality of the self.
You have the dark and the
light side of the personality.
And the idea was
that when you find
the balance between
the two, that
is the focal point of when you
find the center of the mystery
secrets.
You have to be a balanced
person to understand the biggest
mysteries of the universe.
Without it, you're
just basically using
the information for ego.
Now, why would the balance of
the self be riding a horse.
Because you may be familiar
with another symbol in the East
called a Sphinx.
That in esoteric
teachings has always
been a place which is
symbolically lying on top
of a hall of records, OK?
Basically, it's a symbol
of buried knowledge.
Well, the counterpart in
ancient traditions to the Sphinx
is the white horse.
And you often see this
in Celtic mythology,
in Christian ideology.
Whenever Gabriel rides
to meet human beings
with a message from God,
he always rides a horse.
So this is what it means.
You have two
Templars representing
the light and the
dark side of the self
in perfect equilibrium riding
the horse of knowledge, very
powerful statement right there.
And again, if you're
not part of that school,
you would never understand this.
Now, words can also be symbolic.
We talk a lot about Templars
looking for treasure, looking
for a money tree treasure.
It's a very interesting word
because the origin of the word
treasure is "thesauro."
And it literally means a
storehouse, a valued item.
And it is the root of our
modern word, thesaurus,
which of course is a book of
words, a literary treasure.
So perhaps what the Templars
may have been looking for,
because we have all of these
stories about how they found
hidden scrolls underneath
the temple mount
is that the stuff that
they were looking for,
the treasure they were
looking for was not material.
It was actually a treasure
of words, possibly.
Because we keep talking about
how they found these scrolls.
They had to be
decrypted by people
who understood certain
symbolic language, something
else to consider.
Or how about this one?
This is an anagram.
It is the royal seal placed
by the King of Portugal
just after Portugal is created.
And it's found on a
Charter of 1159 issued
by the first King of Portugal.
And in this charter, he
awards the Templars 1/3
of his newly conquered country.
Now, that's a hell of a birthday
present to give someone.
You just spent
half of your life--
this guy was 17 years old by the
way, this King, pretty young.
And I mean, kids had to
grow up very quickly back
in those days.
I mean, we're talking about
serious warfare in the Middle
Ages.
And he just clears
out the territory
from all kinds of foes.
He puts the Portuguese
nation together.
And what do you know,
I think I'll just
hand a third of my country
to the Knights Templar.
Thank you very much.
Again, none of this
seems to add up totally.
So what he does with
his seal, he essentially
sanctions and gives
them the greatest slice
of real estate in history.
And it's a piece of real estate
called the territory of Ceres.
It is literally named after
the goddess of fertility, which
is a big clue right there.
And it eventually would
become the location
of the Templars' most
important temples,
even to this very day, their
most important structures
are still there.
Now, this is where the
symbols get exciting.
To the casual viewer,
the King's circular seal
obviously shows
the word Portugal
written out as an anagram.
Now, look closer.
If you're an
esoteric reader, you
see something a
little bit deeper,
you begin to read
the word portu gral.
Now the gral of course
is the original grail
in its original French form.
But there's another level of
information concealed here
because secret societies
love to put things
in different layers
of information.
To the initiate
of the mysteries,
it is actually a phrase.
So once you put that together,
it means por tu o gral.
And you have to be Portuguese
to understand what that means.
Thank god I can still
speak the language.
Because it literally
means, through you,
the Grail, oh, Susanna.
And this is hidden, stamped on
a seal that gives the Templars
a huge piece of real estate.
Is the King of Portugal,
this newly founded country
in the 12th century
telling us that the land
he just donated to the Templars
is the location of the grail?
Maybe.
Here is the principle
setting for this mystery.
It's the town of Thamara.
It's a beautiful place.
I take groups there regularly.
There's a very good cafe just
at the bottom of the street.
When you get to
Portugal, any tour
has to be based
around 5 to 12 visits
to coffee shops, pastry shops.
You know, we might get some
work done in between them.
It's part of the culture,
we call it research.
Competitive and the
kind of research
you do in Britain
which is usually
around pubs in Scotland.
They call them
research facilities.
It's amazing how
much work gets done.
Back in the 12th century,
this beautiful little town
was called Thamara.
And it's an Arabic name.
And the Templars and the Arabs
get along very well together
despite what you might hear.
There's a huge
connection between them.
And the name in Arabic
literally means "palm tree."
And usually towns
back in the old days
were given names to
because it depicted
something about the area.
Now, I did a little bit of
work on their climatology
and I found that the period
in which all this took place
was too cold to allow palm
trees to actually grow there.
So why would you name a
town after a type of tree
that never grew there?
Very bizarre.
It even gets weirder when
you think about its name
when it becomes written in
Portuguese, which is tomar,
which literally means to drink.
Now, how do you go
about drinking a town?
It's though they're
leaving little clues
to be figured out later.
Well, something
else about this name
also starts getting
suspicions going
that they were obviously hiding
something in plain sight.
Because Thamara happens to
be the name of the daughter
of a woman to whom
the Templars dedicated
a disproportionate
amount of churches.
And that woman was
Mary Magdalene.
Wherever you go
throughout Europe,
they built countless
amount of temples.
They re-erected
ancient sacred sites.
And the disproportionate
amount was
dedicated to this woman that was
totally vilified by the church,
marginalized.
Well, certainly the
Templars were privy
to a great number of
secrets, including
much outlawed or
heretical information.
And now that we know
what heretic means,
we can sympathize.
They were actually in
possession of very important
spiritual knowledge
which someone
didn't want you to know.
And one of the secrets was
actually carelessly revealed
by the Knight Galvais de
Beauvais when he was carelessly
caught escaping France.
And he was caught by
the holy inquisition.
I can't help getting into
Monty Python really, can you?
You can just see him
scurrying through France
trying to get to La Fleche.
And suddenly no one expects
the holy inquisition.
Come in for some
polite questioning.
And of course, you go in
for some polite questioning.
And during this
questioning, and believe me,
this is the least
horrible of the pictures
I found on the questioning
methods of the inquisition.
And this is what he revealed
after they were giving him
the third degree.
And I quote, "There
exists in the Order
a law so extraordinary on
which such a secret should
be kept that any Knight would
prefer his head cut off rather
than reveal it to anyone."
That's pretty serious.
And most of these people did.
They lived by this truth.
But many of them went to their
grave protecting everything.
And it was true, the Order did
keep a secret book, especially
within the inner
brotherhood of the Templars.
And its contents
could not be revealed
beyond the inner brotherhood
along with an unspecified item
in something called the
rule of the elected brothers
that should anyone else read
it, its members would kill them.
They were pretty
serious about this.
It was so secret, so important
that even if the King of France
got hold of this, they
would actually assassinate
the King of France himself.
So what was this secret?
Why was it worth
protecting with your life
and also worth killing
for at same time.
Well, bear this in mind.
The church in the time
was scared of two things.
In fact, they're still scared
of these two things by the way.
Although, I have to give
credit to the latest pope.
I actually kind of like him.
He seems to be making
the right gestures.
So I want to cut him a
little slack on this.
One of the things that they were
scared that people would find
was that Jesus
was a mere mortal,
and that his life
story had been grafted
to fit the profile of 23
earlier resurrected god-men.
And you heard that right.
There are at least
23 known god-men
who get nailed to a cross,
figuratively speaking,
on the winter solstice,
get up three days later,
and they go about to
create a new religion.
The story is as old
as the wall of China.
In fact, it is older
than the wall of China
because they were practicing
that same ritual there
in 2,800 BC.
But that's another story,
another book altogether.
They were also concerned
that people would find out
that he had children.
And that the lineage had
survived along with him.
And that all of this would
become public knowledge,
because as you can imagine, this
would be a huge embarrassment
to the way that the church
had posited the whole story.
The second thing that they
were very concerned about,
and this certainly
came out in 1947
when certain secret
scrolls were found
buried in Nag Hammadi in Egypt.
And they spent something like
$13 million at a low estimate,
trying to make sure that
this stuff didn't come out.
And eventually,
of course, it did.
And it was all to do with the
discovery of gnostic gospels.
And these gnostic
gospels were very damning
because they revealed the
true nature behind the meaning
of the resurrection.
And if people find out
about the true meaning
of the resurrection, they would
undermine their entire office
too.
So bearing this
in mind, let's see
what was going on in
the early 12th century
and see how all of
these worlds collided
in a very interesting manner.
Here we are in 11th
century Europe.
If you're not familiar with
geography, it's very simple.
Because back in
this time period,
there were literally no
countries to speak of.
France didn't exist.
Spain didn't exist.
There was no Italy,
Germany is a bunch of
little kingdoms, Duchies.
And they're all
fighting each other.
They're all struggling
for ownership, fiefdoms
and kingdoms.
And it's so confusing.
Just accept the fact it
was one great big mess.
It really was.
I mean, it took
me six months just
to untangle the different
marriages and lineages
and connections and friendships
and hatreds that were going on.
You couldn't even
make up this stuff.
And Portugal of course,
didn't even exist back then.
But you did have this
tiny little county
on the Western point of the
Iberean peninsula called
the county of Portucale.
Well, at the end of
the 11th century,
a young French knight
called Henri of Burgundy,
and Burgundy again was
another little duchy
in what would today be
the center of France
and a very advanced and
enlightened part of Europe
back then.
They were light years
ahead of anybody
because they had acquired so
much wisdom from the Arabs who
themselves were also light
years ahead of Europe back then.
So they worked very closely
with catalysts and people
of the mystery schools.
So the center of Burgundy
which is just north
of where Languedoc
is on the map,
it was a center
of enlightenment.
And out of the center
of enlightenment
comes actually, quite
a tall knight riding
towards the Iberian Peninsula.
And incredibly, after giving
some favors to a local King,
he inherits this little county
for himself as a wedding gift.
It's not bad for a
couple of months work.
And here he is, dashing
fellow, Henri of Portugal.
He becomes known as
Count Henri of Portucale.
And he settles down with
his lovely new wife.
He starts maintaining
his little territory.
It's a beautiful
part of the world.
They make some of the
best wine in the world.
The trouble is, we tend
to keep it for ourselves.
In 1100, in 1103, Count
Henry, as we call him,
he decides to take two
journeys to Jerusalem.
He goes on pilgrimage.
And it's very opportune
because the city had just
been liberated.
Well, in 1103,
that also coincides
with the arrival in
Jerusalem of a certain man
called Hugues de Payens, the
future Templar Grand Master.
And these two men originated
from the same duchy
in the center of
what today is France.
Both men also apparently
shared a vision
of creating a brand new
kingdom of conscience
answerable to nobody except
god itself, not religion,
not any creator, but
to this whole source
of creation itself, or
free from any entanglement.
So in a small place like
Jerusalem was back then,
it's very likely that these
men sharing different sources
and different ideas,
possibly forged
a very close relationship.
Well, certainly Count Henry
was in Jerusalem long enough,
for two years, to make
sure that plans were made.
And he returns to
Portucale whereupon
he begins to expand this little
territory all the way down
to the city of Lisbon today.
And he begins to do
this thanks to a group
of a knights who
mysteriously came back
with him from Jerusalem.
And then in 1114, he
mysteriously passes away,
just one of those
unfortunate incidences.
His son and successor was
only six years of age.
And you can
particularly imagine,
this posed a huge problem.
The kid is too young to take
over the role of government.
So whatever plans had been
made between Henri and Hugues
de Payens had to be put on
hold for the time being.
Meanwhile in Jerusalem, the
Templars go very, very quiet.
There's not one shred of
documentation from this period
to show what they were up to.
But the order of
the temple appears
to be in its embryonic stage.
We know that Hugues de
Payens was struggling
to form a brotherhood.
We know that he was
asking for help.
We know that he was finding it
very difficult to find knights
who would go to Jerusalem
on a means to find a faith,
not to just go fight Arabs
and claim land for themselves.
And back then, there was
a lot of glory hounds
in this part of the world.
I mean, people were
bankrupt all around Europe.
So to find that one spiritual
person, man or woman
in the crowd, was tough going.
So he gets very, very quiet.
And then he suddenly reappears
in very dramatic fashion
in 1116.
And his signature
appears on a document.
And it is co-signed with a
prior called Petrus Anuldus who
happens to be the prior
of a nearby Abbey of Notre
Dame of Mount Sion.
And in this document Hugues
de Payens and this prior
declare that good relations are
assured between our two orders.
Well, this implies that two
years before the Templars
became an official organization,
Hugues de Payens had apparently
already formed some
kind of brotherhood,
obviously stated right here.
And he was working with
another equally secretive order
of monks that were residing in
this mysterious abbey on Mount
Sion just outside the
walls of Jerusalem.
And it's a very
mysterious organization
that in recent times a book
called "Holy Blood, Holy Grail"
made much work on.
And they brought
them to the fore.
And you may remember that they
were also taken to the cleaners
by several interested groups
who spent a fortune putting out
information that
the Order of Sion
was a fictitious organization.
It eventually becomes known
as the Priory of Sion.
It eventually ends up in the "Da
Vinci Code," the fictional book
by Dan Brown.
Who by the way was my
ex-neighbor in New Hampshire.
You know what, it
never rubbed off on me.
I'm still waiting to have
my one millionth book sale.
It has never quite rubbed off.
We used to walk by
the beach at low tide.
And you could tell two
frustrated writers.
Because one of them was walking
around the beach looking
at the path and in the
sky where inspiration
falls down and drops down
mysteriously on your head.
And the other one is
looking at the sand looking
where inspiration
rises out of the water
to come into your body.
And you go past each other, and
you say, good afternoon, yes,
nice afternoon for a walk.
Good to get out
and clear the head.
Absolutely, and
it's only later when
you look at his
picture on the book
you think, oh, that was
my neighbor, unbelievable.
Nice guy actually.
Well, it turns
out that there are
historical documents actually
validating the Order of Sion,
even documents written by
the King of France himself.
So if this organization didn't
exist, the King of France
must have been smoking
something pretty special
to be ordering documents to
a fictitious organization.
I love how history
works sometimes.
So if this is an equally
mysterious organization,
let's find out more
about this co-signatory.
Let's find out who
this prior actually is.
Well, remember when I was
saying a few minutes ago
that back when Count Henry sails
to Jerusalem from Portucale,
he was accompanied
by a young man who
also originated from his
original county of Burgundy.
And his family was
called the de la Roche.
And this family was a
well-to-do family of the period.
They were supporters and
very enlightened people
who supported an
upcoming order of monks
called the Cistercians.
If you want to find out
everything about the Templars,
look up the Cistercians
and find out everything
you want to know about
their future abbot, Bernard
of Clairvaux, one of the
most intensely religious
and original Christian
people you'll ever
find on the face of the Earth.
Because you understand
Bernard of Clairvaux,
you understand the
head of the Templars
and the linchpin of the
entire Templar organization.
I found and read all of
his 500 surviving letters.
And let me tell you, I
got under this guy's skin.
This guy was a complete
genius, very humble as well.
So this family, the
de la Roche obviously,
were betting on a
very strong horse.
They recognized
that the Cistercians
were going to be a great
force to be reckoned with.
Well, one day the
la Roche family
decides to emigrate to the
little county of Portucale.
And Madame de la
Roche gives birth
to a son called Pierre Arnolde.
And they give birth to
him in a little town
in what would become Portugal.
And this man, this
young son is the man
who sailed to Jerusalem
with Count Henry.
And they know him in Portugal by
his other name, Pierre Arnolde
de la Roche.
We're going to be talking in
three tongues today by the way.
I expect you to remember all
of this stuff, three languages.
Now, Arnolde's arrival in
Jerusalem with Count Henri
was very timely.
Because it happens to
coincide with the monks
of the Order of Sion
moving into their rebuilt
abbey on Mount Sion.
He joins the order.
And this gave young Pedro
Arnolde immense leverage
because the abbey had already
established close ties with two
knights living in the nearby
Church of the Holy Sepulcher,
and their names are, Hugues
de Payens and Godfrey
de Saint-Omer, the nucleus
of the tight Knights Templar.
So we have a direct
relationship and documentation
going on between the Order of
Sion and the formative Templar
Knights.
And proof of this
relationship is
in that document which is
signed by Hugues de Payens
because that
co-signatory, prior Pedro
Arnaldo is none other than
Pedro Arnolde written in Latin.
There was a lot of illiteracy
back in the 12th century.
But the few people
who were literate,
they had to sometimes write
in three different languages,
their own, and also in Latin.
And whats the third one?
I can't remember.
They usually wrote things
in three different ways,
which makes research
really, really difficult.
Because sometimes you're looking
at the same person three times.
And you think, these are
three different people.
But they're not really
the same person.
Well, prior to
Arnolde's position--
no, let me go back on that.
Prior Arnolde's position was
actually much more powerful
than is historically known.
Because we actually know
very little about this guy.
He's like a footnote in history.
Early chroniclers of
the period, And this
is when Harvard can be very
useful to find these previously
unknown documents.
Early chroniclers
cite this man as one
of the original
Templars in Jerusalem,
as well as the key founder
of the Knights Templar
in the county of Portucale.
And this is what I read in
one of these documents written
on animal skin.
It says, Arnolde de Roche
who was a Templar Knight
was one of the first
nine originators
of this illustrious order
of the temple in Jerusalem.
This guy is never mentioned
in any of the history books
as being a Templar Knight,
completely out of the picture.
And the writer
who wrote this, he
would have known because he was
himself a Portuguese Templar
Knight.
We're getting this straight
from the horse's mouth.
He would not be
lying about this.
So this is explosive
material because this guy
has never, ever been listed
as one of the original Templar
Knights.
He is nothing more than
a footnote in history.
He is a footnote in
Portuguese history, let alone
any other kind of history.
And yet.
It turns out that he becomes
the key figure in how
the Templars gained access
to what would become
the future kingdom of Portugal.
Let me summarize all
of this because it gets
a bit confusing after a while.
Here's a man who is the
head of the Order of Sion.
The Order of Sion were
absolutely materially involved
in the creation of
the Knights Templar.
In fact, half the
Knights Templar
can know be revealed
to have been
also members of
the Order of Sion,
as well as Cistercian monks.
They had three jobs
at the same time.
And the documents
that were found
by the writers of the
"Holy Blood, Holy Grail"
found that the stated
claim, and the stated aim
of the Order of Sion
and the Priory of Sion
was to protect a holy
bloodline at all costs.
This is the actual
stated aim of the order.
The other thing
about this guy is
that his family assisted the
abbot, Bernard of Clairvaux,
the spiritual leader
of the Templars,
in fact, the very man
who would handpick
many of the original knights.
He was also born
on Portuguese soil.
He was a friend and confidant
of the Count of Portucale,
and he's a co-founder
of the Knights Templar.
Talk about one helluva
well-positioned guy.
And no one knows about him.
This is why it took 15 years to
research because suddenly you
go, hello, this is going in
a very different direction.
In essence, this
guy was the linchpin
between all of these
related houses and orders.
So all of this new
information now brings up
another unsettling
question, were the Templars
present in Portucale long
before the official founding
date of 1118?
Aha, it turns out
that rare sources
claimed that the
Templars already
were active in this county
following Count Henri's
return from
Jerusalem, which means
that 13 years before the
Templars were known to have
existed, they are
already materially
active on the other
side of Europe.
But the best evidence comes from
an actual property donation.
And you can't get better
than getting your hands
on a real document that shows a
transaction, an actual business
transaction.
And they still have this in
Portugal, incredibly enough.
And I found this document.
And it's for a
property donation.
And not just any property
donation, it's a castle.
It's a big property donation
along with half a town.
And it was given to
the order of the temple
by Count Henri himself in 1111.
Oh, dear, because
this single-handedly
places the Proto Templars firmly
in the county of Portucale
seven years before they
appeared on temple mound.
It changes the whole course
of history in one go.
And they certainly
had a foothold there.
Because shortly after he
passes away, Count Henry,
he signs another document
providing the Templars
with a second property.
And this is a key residence
in the city of Braga,
which as it turns out,
is not just any old city.
It turns out that it's the
oldest known city in Europe.
What happened was
is that the Templars
began quietly
amassing properties
in and around this city.
In fact, eventually, it
becomes their headquarters,
not so much Jerusalem, this is
where they were all hiding out.
And one later
Templar master even
stated this in his own words.
Let me say what he says.
He says,
[SPEAKING LATIN]
Yep, come on, get your
apps out, come on.
If your Latin is as
scruffy as mine is,
it means that the home of the
temple is in the city of Braga.
It comes from the
horse's mouth again.
And still, at this
time, the Templars
officially and historically
do not yet exist.
And yet so far we've been 36
minutes into his presentation,
and we've proved
completely otherwise.
Amazing how sometimes you
have to look at the facts just
to show how sometimes orthodox
history can be challenged just
based on the facts itself.
Now, let's fast forward the
story 10 years to Jerusalem.
1125, the year when the Templars
suddenly grew very suspiciously
active on Temple Mount.
Something happened, they
began to scurry around
like headless chickens getting
things together, packing bags
and suddenly disappearing.
Hugues de Payens, the Templar
Grand Master, and this Prior
Arnolde, of the
Order of Sion, again,
had been working together
on some undisclosed project.
Because on May the 2nd
the Feast of Beltane,
they co-sign yet
another document
in which the two
leaders yet again pledge
good relations between their
respective brotherhoods.
At this moment, one
group of knights
returns to the
French territories.
And they are carrying
with them an object
of such extraordinary
value and importance
that it requires
protection from the church.
And they are given
this protection.
And it eventually goes
into the town of Troyes.
It disappears into the
county of Champagne.
And after that, it
disappears from sight.
Absolutely goes underground.
Some say it reappears in
the Cathedral of Chartres.
Maybe.
We are not too far from
the time when the cathedral
itself was rebuilt.
And there is actually
in one of the pillars, one
of the doors of the initiates
in the northwestern
quadrant of the building
a pillar which
everybody misses which
does show a very well
crafted design which
shows the Ark of the Covenant
being lifted by a rope
by several people.
And they seem to be ascending
a ladder going up to heaven.
It's one of the most
mysterious symbols you'll
find in Chartres Cathedral.
So this may have
been something to do
with the Ark of the Covenant.
We just don't know.
Prior Arnoldo also
suddenly becomes
suspiciously absent from
Mount Sion, just disappears.
Goes AWOL, as do a second
group of Templar Knights which
are dispatched to the
county of Portucale.
They take up residence
in the city of Braga.
And they begin receiving
massive amounts of land grants
and other property donations.
People literally were
just handing them
over property left,
right, and center.
And most of the bills of
sale still exist today.
You just got to know
where to find them.
So writing about this previously
unknown historical event,
one chronicler actually
states about this event,
the grandmaster dispatched
several knights with the powers
to establish a Portuguese crown.
Bang, right there.
One of the knights
was called Guilherme,
who supervised the others.
And they had the
title and the power
of procurators of the
temple which they exercised
in due course, as
many writers agree,
while the order sought
to establish a home
and proceed as planned.
This is an actual document.
And here are the names
of these five people
that were sent on this
clandestine mission
to this county on the
opposite side of Europe
that's never taken place, ever.
If you've never
seen a smoking gun,
this is what it looks like.
Thank god for all those days
scurrying through Harvard
looking at animal skin.
So clearly, the
group of nine men,
they discovered something
of enormous value.
And they began setting
up the framework
for a secure territory
on where to place it.
And they did this on the
extreme edge of Europe
and as far from
the Vatican group
as was possible back
in the 12th century.
They want to make sure that
what was put there was totally
in safe hands.
So let's see what happens
next in this exciting story.
In order to keep track of
what the Templars were up to.
The pope decided to
convene a famous council
in the town of Troyes.
This is a very quiet
little town in France.
Not much goes on.
Because think about
it at the time,
the church basically
runs the show.
You can't do anything in Europe
without the church's authority
or in the church
knowing about it.
Their henchmen are everywhere.
They've got spies everywhere.
And the Templars are
pretty shrewd people.
In fact, they were damn clever
because they figured out,
we can't fight the church.
We're going to give
them lip service.
But at the same time, we need
to do what we have to do.
Because what we found
is of such importance
that we can't let the church
get their mitts on this stuff.
So what do we do if
you're a Buddhist?
Well, as any Buddhist
philosophy will tell you,
with both arms wrapped
around your enemy,
your enemy can't fight you.
So they actually approach
the pope and say, papa,
would you like to
convene a little council?
And we'll kind of bring
you in on what we know.
And the pope says, hey,
that's a great idea.
Finally we get to find
out what these guys have
been doing on Temple Mount.
Because you know, the
spies can't figure out
what's going on because
well, the Templars aren't
doing any fighting.
They're not protecting pilgrims.
And what the hell
are they doing?
So the church is totally
keen on finding out what
the Templars have been up to.
So they convene the
council in Troyes.
Which as it turns out
was very fortuitous,
because it happens to be in
the same town that is actually
run and owned by one of
the leading Templar Knights
to begin with.
They're right in the middle of
Templar territory in France.
Right in the heart
of the lion's mouth.
The council is attended by
all the key Templar figures,
including Hugues de Payens.
And at the end and like I
said, the items on the agenda
were much more important.
The whole idea about
sanctioning the knight
and saying [SPEAKING LATIN]
to the Templars
was about the fifth
item on the agenda.
Very low on the radar,
it's as if the pope said,
we're not really
interested in that.
You know, of course you're
damn well interested.
You just convened this council
in the middle of nowhere
to find out what the
Templars were doing.
Of course you're interested.
You're just pretending
that you're not interested.
So this was a very smart
move by the Templars
because basically they didn't
want to alienate the church.
They wanted to create the
public PR exercise to give them
the blessing.
And once they had the
blessing of the church,
they can quietly go
about their business
by just providing lip service.
And that's what they did.
Now, here's the fun part.
While all of this kerfuffle
is taking place over
in Troyes in France, the
other five Templars who
had gone to Portucale
clandestinely,
they're busy assisting the late
Count Henry's son, Alfonso.
And here he is.
It's amazing what you can
do with modern cameras.
Here's a photograph taken
from the 12th century.
I love this digital technology.
So they're assisting
the late Count's son,
Alfonso in removing what's
left of the Spanish and Moorish
troops from what essentially was
occupied Portuguese territory
and paving the way to establish
the independence of Portugal.
And they do this.
They succeed within a couple of
weeks of the Council of Troyes.
The whole thing was
already in forward motion
while the council itself
is already taking place.
For them, it was just
an icing on the cake.
They were over here already
carrying out their little plan.
And proof that the
Templars were directly
involved in the creation
of this first nation state
is actually written
on the very charter
of Portugal's independence.
And here it is.
There have been suspicions
for a long, long time
that Prince Alfonso was
himself a Templar Knight.
They just couldn't
quite prove it.
And he was always
described as being,
and I quote, "Greatly
obligated to members
of the Order of the
Knights Templar."
Now this kid was
barely 17 years of age.
How does someone
this young become
so obligated to a
group of knights,
and foreign knights at
that from 2,000 miles away?
There has to be a connection
going on here for him
to have that kind of obligation
to these Templar Knights.
Well, you have a close
look at the actual charter
of Portugal's independence.
When you look at the
wording, it is actually
awarded to the
Templars themselves.
Now, that's a very
strange thing to do.
You just cleared all of
these invading troops
out of this territory.
You've got your land.
And you've basically
awarded it to the Templars.
And this is from a king
who had been fighting
this protected war for decades.
And when you look at the
wording on the charter,
it reveals everything.
Because he's addressing
the Templars.
And this is what
the prince says,
I make this donation not
by force or by persuasion
but for the love of God,
and for the good of my soul
and for the cordial love
that I have for you.
And because within
your brotherhood
and in all your
works, I am a brother.
He let the cat right
out of the bag.
He was himself a Templar Knight.
And he was indoctrinated in
secrets several years earlier.
And just to make
sure you also got
the point, the
unmistakable Templar logo,
the original Templar
logo is imprinted
on the first charter of the
independence of Portugal.
What a great story.
So let's look at
what we have so far.
I told you it was complicated.
But like all good things, you've
got to work at this, you know.
You should try reading the book.
It'll will give you
a hell of a headache.
In fact, there's like
800 references in this.
It's done something to
my short-term memory.
The follow up book
to this was easy.
I just kind of took about
three weeks to write it.
This was difficult.
Well, without giving
you a spoiler--
how should I describe this--
the gift of the entire story
is in the last paragraph.
And if you're an
Aries, and I know you,
do not go to the last paragraph.
It will ruin the
entire book, OK?
You've got to know your
astrological signs.
You've got to know who
you're working with.
Aries, I'm going to go right
to the back of the book.
I'm going to find out
what it's all about.
It will ruin it.
I'm going to take you
right to the very end.
And you're going to suffer.
But it's going to
be so much fun.
There's always a good reward.
Nothing comes easy.
So this is what we have so far.
We have the Templars
embedded in Portugal a decade
before they historically
appear on temple mound.
And the best part, they have
one of their own members
on the throne of Portugal.
That's pretty good
work for 30 years.
We have Prior Arnolde,
this mysterious figure
that no one ever talks
about in history,
previously unknown
Templar Knight,
Head of the Order of Sion.
He's working with the
Templar grandmaster.
He's arranging
properties and alliances
that lead to the
creation of Portugal
as Europe's first nation state.
We're talking here about
a patient plan that took
over two decades to complete.
They were in no hurry.
They had all the
time in the world.
There's a patient plan.
They want to make
sure that whatever
was done was done
elegantly and successfully.
They were not going to fudge
this in any way possible.
So now all of this brings up a
couple of very big questions.
Why would you create a country
from scratch and as far
from Rome as possible?
Again, to reiterate, the
church is afraid of two things,
one was this evidence that
the holy bloodline exists.
Let me quickly just sort
of go into the concept
of holy bloodline
because it really
is beyond the scope
of this lecture.
And indeed beyond the
scope of my research.
That really goes
over to the writers
of "Holy Blood,
Holy Grail," who've
also suffered for bringing out
this information by the way.
And they took it on the chin.
Well done group.
Kind of like Graham
Hancock, he takes it for us,
and then we just
quietly go behind him.
Very useful guy,
lovely friend as well.
The holy bloodline can
be dated all the way back
to the house of Troy which may
come as a bit of a surprise.
So we're talking about
what, 4,000 years?
Yes.
At the time of the Trojan
wars when the house of Troy
lost to the Greeks, this
bloodline apparently split.
Because when you think about it,
that makes a lot of good sense.
If you have something as
powerful as a sacred bloodline
of divinely guided
priest-kings and queens,
if you are being attacked.
And you've lost
the fight, you want
to split what left you have of
your account into two segments.
You don't want them to be
found in the same place.
So the bloodline splits up, just
to make sure it is protected.
Part of this bloodline makes
its way around the Aegean.
It goes through Crete.
It goes around the
bottom of the Aegean.
It goes through
the Mediterranean,
the bottom of Sicily.
Part of it goes
through central Europe.
But the rest takes
a ship all the way
around the coast of
the Atlantic to a place
called Braga which is
ironically the place where
the Templars 3,000 years
later just happened
to end up as well.
There's a big clue right there.
And after they settled in
Braga for an unspecified time,
they then moved to the
south of England to a town
called Totnes where there is a
natural mound, which apparently
they built. And then they
moved to a city which
was back then a small area
that was governed by the Welsh
called Lundein, which today
we know as the city of London.
So the city of London,
and it was basically
co-founded by the
Welsh and the Trojans.
Not many people know that.
And there has been
this suggestion
that part of the
divine bloodline
is being protected in Britain.
The other side of this story
is that the bloodline went
through the house of David
and it stayed in Palestine
and near east.
Eventually this bloodline
emerges in the Merovingian line
of kings and queens in
the center of Europe,
and particularly in France.
This bloodline was deposed
by a very fierce coup
by another group called
the Carolingians.
I hope you're keeping
track of all this.
My head hurts.
Can I be excused?
By the Carolingians-- and it is
this dynasty that to this day
has been running most of France.
Which is interesting, because
these are the Kings that
were backed by the church.
So the church appears to have
known that this bloodline did
survive because they were
fundamental in backing up
the group that deposed
the Merovingians.
Now, this is where it gets fun.
How does all of this relate
to Portugal and the fact
that the church was concerned
about a holy bloodline that may
have gone to Portugal as well?
This was where Harvard
comes in very handy.
I wasn't looking for this.
I had no intention of going
anywhere near a holy bloodline.
That's something for
people who can afford
to hire research assistants.
That's not me.
Or people who actually
work at Harvard.
And I begged them.
I was literally on my knees.
And somehow by the grace
of some mysterious force,
they let me in, and I
found this huge book.
I mean, it was classic
television stuff.
They brought it down.
They have a little
lift, sorry elevator.
I've been here 14 years, I
still can't speak American.
An elevator-- and you
get your gloves ready.
You know, it's like, oh,
this is going to be meaty.
And the little bell goes bing.
And two people come out.
And they bring this
huge book out, thick
covered with leather.
And it takes two people
to bring it over.
And they plunk it on your desk.
And people are turning
around going, um.
And they'll say, oh, you
don't need gloves for this.
I said, why?
Well, it's written
on animal skin.
The wax actually helps
preserve the paper.
You think, you're kidding me.
And imagine, as you're sitting
there turning this huge book,
and you're touching the
corners, hopefully not poisoned.
I've watched "The
Name of the Rose."
You're actually touching
the darkened corners
of pages that were handwritten
by monks 900 years ago.
That's an incredible
thing for someone to do.
And I'm sitting there reading
this in medieval Portuguese,
which is slow going.
And I can read Portuguese,
medieval Portuguese.
You've got to take it slowly.
Because they put
commas everywhere.
You know, they're in
no hurry like we are.
Like, they don't have apps.
You know, they go,
and so it came forth,
and the first time of
the time of so-and-so,
who is a daughter of
so-and-so, in the county of--
get to the point.
And there's no index.
And all I'm doing is
looking for a couple
of pieces of information
that will validate
something I've already found.
By the time I get to page 680,
I'm going, this is riveting.
I don't know where this is going
but it has no bearing on what
I'm doing, but holy mother.
There's a rare document in
the middle of this book.
And I remember saying something
like in the middle of Harvard.
And people turned around.
And I went, sorry.
I was really quite embarrassed.
You don't behave like
that in one of the highest
seats of learning.
I'm misbehaving quite badly.
I'm getting very excited.
It turns out that this book
written by the Cistercian monks
actually has the indoctrination
ceremony for every new Templars
master in Portugal.
We didn't know this existed.
It was a complete fluke.
And I'm sitting there
reading this article.
This is the actual
phrase that the candidate
swore when they became the new
Templar masters in Portugal.
And what they did was,
they didn't actually
swear allegiance to the
Templar brotherhood itself.
They swore allegiance to
the Cistercian brotherhood.
Oh, yes, because the
Cistercians and the Templars
were in fact the same people.
In fact, most of the monks
had come from the Cistercian
monastery to begin with.
They were all handpicked
by Bernard of Clairvaux.
But here's the wonderful
section in this actual phrase
that the Templar master had to
utter in front of this crowd.
He said, I declare a vow to
protect the bloodline of David.
Now, why include this line item
unless there was a bloodline
to protect in Portugal?
And that's where the
bell suddenly went off.
Oh, that's one big
reason why you set up
a country on the
other side of Europe
because this is
anathema to the church.
If they knew that there was a
bloodline here, you're a goner.
So there is this subtle idea.
And I have not been able
to find out any more
information about this.
And in fact, it is beyond
the scope of this lecture
to go on about the bloodline.
All I know is that after
Alfonso gives 1/3 of his country
to the Templars, his
own particular family
takes a split.
They form a side, a splinter
group called the House of Aviz,
or Avis.
Maybe nothing to do with
the car rental company.
I don't think so.
But to this very day
they still exist.
In fact, they exist not
far from where I was born.
And they had the Templar
logo with the Fleur-de-lis
on it which is a symbol
of the divine bloodline.
So there is a suggestion that
somewhere in Portugal there
is a hint of part of
that divine bloodline.
It could be me.
I didn't know.
I could own land.
There may be a queen
waiting to marry me.
A rich tall woman.
I just thought about that.
This could be quite--
woo, do I have to
keep doing this?
Can I go home now?
So that's one thing that
the church was afraid of,
this bloodline and
why the Templars maybe
built this territory on
the other side of Europe.
The other thing that they
were concerned about was--
in fact, they were paranoid--
was that people would
uncover its bogus claim
on Jesus' ministry.
And part of this bogus claim
was to do with the suppressed
Gospels of Philip and
Thomas, which today you
can buy in any bookstore.
And I recommend you
do because they have
lots of meaty things in it.
Specifically Philip
is particularly
damning about the church.
They talk about an imitation
church that usurped
the true church of Christ.
And also other
interesting people
who were involved in that group.
And in the particular
"Gospel of Philip,"
they were saying that if
you actually found out
what the true church was
doing, that you have actually
discovered the true meaning
behind the resurrection.
And Philip is particularly
poignant on this fact
because he says that the
resurrection was actually
never meant to be a real event.
It was supposed
to be a metaphor.
It was always to do with a
secret ritual of initiation.
There was never a person
nailed to a cross.
No one ever gets up from the
dead after they've been dead.
It contravenes the
laws of nature.
And he says this in
the actual gospel.
And I'll come back
to this in a second
because it's very important.
But here is the
link because there
are a number of
clues that suggest
the Templars themselves
were conducting this very
heretical ritual.
Because initiates that belong to
the inner Templar brotherhood--
and there were two brotherhoods.
There was an outer
brotherhood that
did things of a menial
nature like cook,
clean, do things, fix
things, and sometimes they
were called on to
fight for protection.
Because you had to back
then otherwise you're dead.
This inner Templar
brotherhood, they
undertook a very secret
ritual which so many people
seem to know about.
And when they completed this
ritual, when they came out,
they were declared risen.
And sometimes risen
from the dead.
Now it suggests
that the Templars
or a group within the
Templars were practicing
a mystical spirituality.
And this is implied
by the vow made
by recruits who wanted to
be admitted into the Templar
order.
This is something else that
was discovered recently.
Again, hiding in
plain sight, this
is what the recruits wishing
to join the order actually
declared.
I wishing to come to
the joys of paradise--
a strange thing for
a warrior to say.
I wishing to come to the
joys of paradise surrender
my body and my soul to the
Lord God and the blessed Mary
and the brothers of the
knighthood of the Temple
of Solomon in Jerusalem.
Which begs the
question, why would
becoming a warrior,
a fighting person
bring you the joys of paradise?
The two don't go together.
It's implying that
joining the Templars
somehow came with a
promise that had with it
a substantial spiritual benefit.
I mean, paradise
is something that's
a highly attainable
spiritual goal.
And if you are into
the mystery schools,
it's one of the highest levels
of initiation and experience
that you can possibly
have when you're alive.
Well, it turns out this inner
brotherhood of the Templars
did not behave like
knights at all, if ever,
because they never
did any fighting.
In fact, they went
around behaving
much like a ministerial
college like real monks ought
to be doing.
So wherever they made a
home in Europe, the knights
we're always
preoccupied with looking
for ancient sacred sites.
So wherever they went
to France, wherever
they moved to England,
Scotland, Portugal, Spain,
wherever they decided
to settle down,
they always chose an
ancient sacred site.
And I'm talking stone circles,
upright rocks, temples,
caves carved out of rocks.
And incredibly, all of
these sites, almost 95%
of the ones I've
been able to find
were exclusively dedicated
to a divine female deity,
a divine virgin.
Often ISIS or whatever her
regional doppelganger was.
So clearly, these knights,
these fighting knights
were after something of
a very spiritual nature.
The next piece of evidence
in this trail of thought
actually comes from an article
in the secret Templar rule.
And it was a special book
that was found literally quite
by accident on one of
the personal possessions
of a knight that was
caught running away
from the holy inquisition,
and it concerns the rule
of the elected brothers.
And it's article 7.
And its oh, so juicy.
Here's what it says.
In fact, here's
another smoking gun.
Build in your houses meeting
places that are large
and hidden that can be
accessed by underground tunnels
so that the brothers can go
to meetings without the risk
of getting into trouble.
In the houses of
unelected brothers,
it is prohibited to conduct
certain materials pertaining
to the philosophical sciences,
or the transmutation of base
metals into gold and silver.
You know what I'm saying.
This should only be undertaken
in secret and hidden places.
Ooh, I like it.
So a bunch of guys going
around fighting, talking about
references to alchemy.
I mean, spiritual
transfiguration,
I mean these assumptions are
at the very core of the mystery
teachings.
In case you're not familiar,
and I'm sure all of us here are.
This transmutation of base
metals into gold and silver
is the fundamental
principle of any neophyte
that comes into the
mysteries as a base metal.
You're just an ordinary
human being, a bag of bones
and some meat attached to it.
And by the time you've
gone through the levels
of the mysteries and you've
come to know the mind of God,
you have been transmuted
into a new type of metal.
You've been fashioned into a
article of gold and silver.
And what that means,
another symbol, gold
is always representative
of the masculine self.
And silver is the feminine self.
So you've come to harmonize
through the teachings
your polar opposites.
Like the two knights
riding the horse,
you have now united your
feminine and your masculine
and now made into one.
You've become the single man.
In fact, just as Jesus
also himself stated,
only the single ones
can find paradise.
It answers that
particular question.
So someone here was trying to
keep something very, very quiet
and secure from the clergy.
Least of all because the
final ritual of initiation
within the Templar order
revolved the candidate being
lifted from a figurative grave.
And it was described as
a living resurrection.
Well, where did the Templars
get such preposterous ideas?
It's not that difficult
to figure out actually
because, yes,
separated at birth.
It has been noted by many
people how the Templars bear
a remarkable resemblance
to the beliefs, the rules,
the methods, even the
dress code of another bunch
of interesting buggers
call the Essenes.
Oh, it doesn't translate
very well here.
I'm sorry.
I better keep my Britishisms
to myself sometimes.
Anyway, a group of interesting
folk called the Essenes.
And the Essenes of
course were around
1,000 years earlier
before the Templars,
not to confuse the two directly.
However, while in Jerusalem, the
Templars did become friendly--
and this is known--
with various esoteric groups.
They became friends
of the Sufi, which is
the esoteric portion of Islam.
Very interesting
people actually.
They also got to know
the Sabians of Harran who
were very interested
in taking pilgrimages
to the Great Pyramid because
they said that it helps
us connect with the stars.
They're talking about
going there to have
an out of body experience.
And that's a whole
other story in itself.
But they were especially
keen on making friends
with a group called
the Mandaeans, who
are very similar in all
ways to the Essenes.
You're keeping track
of all of this, right?
Good.
Words are very interesting.
Etymology is a wonderful
tool to have possession of.
Mandaean comes from
a word called manda.
And it literally translates
as, secret spiritual knowledge.
Now, there's a title.
I'm a Mandaean.
It tells you
exactly who you are.
I possess secret
spiritual doctrine.
I practice a spiritual truth.
And they followed-- and
still do to this very day--
the Book of John which
apparently according
to the church does
not exist because it
is written by John the Baptist.
And John the Baptist apparently
according to the church
never wrote the book.
Well, if you go and talk to
the Mandaeans today which
are a highly persecuted
sect in the south of Iraq,
they will show you the Book
of John to this very day.
They're still
practicing the rules
of their very spiritual
leader, John the Baptist.
They didn't care
any about Jesus.
They said, well, he's
an important guy,
but he really just
was not a major figure
in the bigger scheme of things.
Now, John the Baptist, he's
a very important person.
And they maintain
that to this very day.
We know this to be true
because in 1865 the extremely
debauched pope, Pope Pius IX.
And I like this guy.
Because he just sat down
with a few pints of beer.
And he just let the cat
out of the bag, one thing
after another.
Oh, you should see
some of his quotes.
This fable of Christ has
well profited our company.
The church then came out
with its PR department,
and said, oh, no,
he didn't say that.
He didn't say that.
He was just having
one of those moments.
A week later they published
an eight page document
saying what he hadn't said.
Just quit while you're ahead.
If he didn't say it, don't
publish an 8 page document
explaining what he didn't say.
It's like putting a parental
sticker on an album.
You're going to buy it.
You'd think that they
would have learned by now.
The other thing that he
said was that he basically
accused the Templars
and their progeny,
the Freemasons of
secretly being Johannites,
that they had always paid
lip service to Catholicism.
They said they would
never follow Jesus.
They never dedicated any of
their churches or sacred sites
to Jesus.
And they had been following
this secret Johannite doctrine
all along.
So essentially in
the 19th century,
the church finally
issued a kind of fatwa
on the Templars
and the Freemasons.
You can't even make up
this stuff, it's so funny.
So it now begs us
to ask the question,
why were the Templars following
John the Baptist and not Jesus?
What was so special
about John the Baptist?
Well, around 30 AD, both the
Essenes and the Mandaeans
practiced a very secret ritual.
And this was undertaken
by an inner brotherhood
who separated themselves
from an outer brotherhood.
Sound familiar?
This ritual to put
it in nuts and bolts
involved three
years of practice.
You have to be tested for
well, responsibility, making
sure that the
information that you
were given because it was
secret and very important,
that you could be
entrusted with it.
And that sorted out the
sheep from the elephants.
If you were able to
maintain your integrity
throughout these
three years, you
were then led to the
final level of initiation.
And that's when
you were taken down
to a cave, a sarcophagus,
or a restricted chamber,
and you had an induced
near death experience.
And I've written about this
in my new book, which I'm just
giving you a paraphrase here.
It's an extraordinary story.
And in this
near-death experience,
which is highly controlled
by priests and priestesses,
and it was a great
responsibility.
I mean, if you think
about it, you're literally
putting someone into a coma.
And you expect them to come back
into the body three days later.
And during this time,
you've gone AWOL.
Your soul has gone
into the other world,
it is hanging around there
talking to spirits, discarded
souls, gaining information,
extracting special knowledge
and coming back totally
cognizant of this information
about the mechanics of nature.
This is really important stuff.
We're talking people who
practiced this later on,
people like Plato, Pythagoras,
Isaac Newton, possibly even
Leonardo da Vinci.
All of these people belong
to very similar sects.
And even Plato declared
that this experience,
this near-death living
resurrection experience, even
form and shape, his ideas on
philosophy and metaphysics,
he has actually
written about this.
So they were conducting this
all over the place in secret.
And at the end, the candidate
after three days of being
in a coma comes
back into the body,
his soul comes in,
he's totally groggy.
And she by the way, this
was also open to women.
And they are taken out by the
priestesses or the priest,
they are shown the morning
sun or the brightest star
on the horizon that morning
which would have been Sirius,
the star of wisdom.
And at that moment, they were
declared, raised from the dead.
That's what these
people were practicing,
the Mandaeans and
Essenes were practicing.
Because they were declared
risen from the dead,
because compared to the
uninitiated, the people who
hadn't been exposed
to this other world,
they hadn't been exposed to the
creative force of the universe,
these people were walking
around life, going shopping,
watching television,
clicking their apps,
and they were declared, the
dead, or the walking dead
as they called them as well.
So even back then
they had this issue
with people who
were unenlightened
and people who got it.
We're still struggling
with this today.
It's a perennial exercise.
And only the highest
adepts were allowed
to conduct and teach this
ceremony, as you can imagine.
It's a huge responsibility.
This highest level of
initiation was entrusted only
to a few individuals.
And the ritual as I said, was
called the living resurrection.
And it came with a title.
The title is going
to be quite shocking.
It's called Nazari, right?
You've heard the story,
Jesus of Nazareth.
It couldn't be further
from the truth.
Recent archeological
evidence shows
so far that Nazareth
back in Jesus' day,
actually there wasn't much
there, there was a few hovels.
There's some caves.
Apparently, the synagogue
in the Bible in Nazareth
did even exist.
Or at least it hasn't
been found yet.
So perhaps the story was
a little bit concocted.
Maybe it was misconceived.
Well, the term Nazari did
exist back in Jesus' time.
And it literally means a
keeper of special knowledge.
So two of the people that are
known by the Mandaeans who
have been allowed to conduct
this living resurrection
ceremony were Jesus Christ
and John the Baptist.
And that's why
Jesus was a nazari.
He didn't come from Nazareth.
He was an actual priest.
Now you know.
And I was raised as a Catholic.
This was pretty shocking stuff.
This ritual gave initiates
direct experience of God.
And I'm talking about this from
a nonreligious point of view
now.
It's a critical
step on the path of
self-realization and
self-empowerment, very
heretical stuff back in the day.
So naturally, such knowledge
could also be abused.
And that's why it was
withheld from people outside
of the inner brotherhoods.
And the initiates, as
I mentioned earlier,
they vowed to die rather
than reveal these secrets.
And of course, many
of them did, including
of course, the priest-messiah
John the Baptist.
But not before he taught
the initiation practices
to such people as
Mary of Bethany,
otherwise known as
Mary the Magdal Eder,
which means the
watcher of the flock.
We know her by another name.
She is of course,
Mary Magdalene.
And it's proved that
she was a priestess, who
also was part of the
initiation ceremonies
because her epitaph is the
woman who knew the ALL.
That's the giveaway.
She already understood
these secrets.
And the fact that the
Templars dedicated
virtually all of their sacred
sites to these two individuals
shows that they actually
followed their ministry.
In Catholicism, as
you know, both figures
are very low on the radar
for a very good reason.
So proof that the
Templars were also
practicing the secret
mysteries under the tutelage
of a divine virgin
lies in the code
of conduct written
for the Templars
by Bernard of Clairvaux.
The Templars had
to swear an oath
to uphold the
obedience of Bethany,
the castle of Mary and Martha.
This means that they are
upholding the house of Mary
Magdala herself.
And this is very powerful stuff.
So while the church is
thinking that They've
got the Templars under
control, the Templars
are following the rule of
Mary Magdalene all along.
So we've got to
ask ourselves what
was so dangerous about
these secret mysteries
and why they became
outlawed by the church.
Well, these mysteries
were essential components
of esoteric brotherhoods who
for over 3,000 years from China
to Egypt to the Andes
had practiced gnosis.
And it's a Greek name
meaning knowledge
of spiritual mysteries.
And it's a knowing
that comes not
just from specialized
information
but from a wider perception.
Much like a Buddhist finds
an expanded awareness
through meditation.
And so the views held by
its practitioners including
the Gnostic Christians--
and there were gnostic
Christians by the way--
of how the universe
truly works differed
from those of fundamentalists.
For example, these people did
not interpret the resurrection
literally.
Instead they insisted and
recognized the human condition
for what it is.
It's a spiritual death.
And you have to be
reborn in the world
to understand how things work.
Because for them,
the resurrection
is the moment a person
discovers enlightenment.
And the suppressed
Gospel of Philip
makes this distinction
very clear.
And he writes in
this banned gospel,
those who say they
will die first
and then rise are in error.
They must receive the
resurrection while they live.
Oh, Susanna.
Gnostic Christians
went even so far as
to call the literal
view of Jesus' death
the faith of fools,
actual quote.
And anyone believing
the church's version
of resurrection was
confusing a spiritual truth
with an actual event.
And the ritual that culminated
in the initiate being risen
from the dead was conducted
in special temples
and underground chambers
located at the confluence
of the Earth's
electromagnetic energies.
And this required a
specialized knowledge
of the mechanics of nature.
And such an understanding
gave the initiate
a degree of control over
their out of body experience.
And the Egyptians
already knew about this.
They called it, hecka.
It means magical power.
And derived from this magical
power is the word "heckel."
which is temple.
And since ancient
temples without exception
are placed at the confluence of
the Earth's telluric currents,
or the dragon lines,
or the serpent lines
if you want to call them that.
This formerly links a sacred
site with Earth energy
and the magical
power one receives
from such an interaction.
So what the Egyptians and
other ancient cultures
were hinting at is that by a
specially designed building,
when placed upon the
Earth's telluric currents
generates an environment
for a shamanic
but controlled out
of body experience.
And that is capable of
transforming a person
on a spiritual level.
And if been to sacred
sites as much as I do,
you'll understand this
is absolutely correct.
Here's a simple example.
Let's give you a bit
of science behind this.
This is not a diagram.
This is an actual map of
a magnetometer survey.
A magnetometer is a kind
of a big awkward machine
that you drag along the ground
to find electromagnetism
on the ground.
And it shows the Rollright
stone circle in the UK
and how it actually attracts
a magnetic line of the Earth's
telluric currents
into the entrance.
And look at how it
behaves like the rabbit
hole in "Alice in Wonderland."
It clearly shows,
and many examples
like it, that the sacred
sites are attracting
the Earth's energy currents.
And they are doing so for
a very important reason.
And the Templars were well
aware of the relationship
between their body, a
geometrically designed
building, and
electromagnetic hotspots.
Because wherever they
went, they either rebuilt
the ancient sacred sites
or they deliberately
chose locations known
for their telluric energy
to build their own, such
as this important building
in the town of Thamara.
This rotunda marks
the confluence
of these two invisible yet
measurable pathways of energy.
And the paths to this
very day around this tower
are actually marked by
effigies around the building.
You just have to know
the symbols to look for.
And if you're patient,
the symbols are there.
These are electromagnetic
forces which occur naturally,
together where
they're harnessing
within a geometric
space is now known
to have a profound
effect on a person's
state of consciousness.
So it is this interaction
between magic,
the temple, and the
mind that begins
the process of activating
the body's sensory organs
and ultimately leads to
an out of body experience.
The method is consistent with
ancient ritual initiation
around the world from
Arizona to the Andes.
And you heard that correctly.
They are still doing this
in the kivas in Arizona.
Now, if you recall, the
Templars spent years on a quest
to discover a treasure
on the Temple Mount.
They were rich men who
gave up their wealth
to dig in hot and
putrid conditions.
Clearly money was
not the motivation.
And what they found
were texts outlining
specific shamanic practices
that allowed a direct experience
of God, the one
practice that undermined
the purpose of the church.
Evidence proves the texts
were of an alchemical nature.
Because in 1121, they
were sent across Europe
to Lambert de Saint-Omer.
Not only was he a
cryptographer who
uncovered the secrets
of these texts,
he was also a
Cabalist, or Cabalist.
And the art of
kabbalah literally
means the understanding
of the science
of the spirit body of god.
Once you understand
the spirit body of god,
you know about the
forces of creation.
That's why this stuff
is very important.
So the Templars were
offering a direct experience
of the divine.
They were offering the
salvation of the soul, not
the catholic church.
And this is why
everyone in Europe
was falling over themselves
to hand over property and soul
to these few knights.
And we know this because
during the polite questioning
by the inquisition,
the informants
revealed that the
Templars did indeed
perform secret
rituals, one of which
involved initiates
being resurrected
from a figurative grave.
The in the Templar brotherhood
was indoctrinated people
into the ritual of living
resurrection and giving them
a taste of paradise exactly
as the inner people coming
into the brotherhood
were asking to find.
And in doing so, they were
reenacting the very same ritual
practiced in Egypt in 2,600 BC.
And it's written on the walls
of an underground chamber
in the Pyramid of Unas, where
the body of the actual pharaoh
was not found in that place.
But when you read the
actual transcripts,
it shows that this person
left the body alive
and it was expected for
the soul to come back
into the living body.
That's been discovered
in the last few years.
So we know that they
were practicing it
because their progeny,
the Freemasons,
are still figuratively
performing this ritual today.
And you'll know this if anyone
here is a third-degree Mason.
And what happens in
the third degree?
The candidate is
risen figuratively
from a grave, brought upwards.
The blindfold removed
because the information
has been received has
made them enlightened.
And now they can see.
They are no longer blind.
They are no longer dead.
So it's a lot to think about.
When we come back, we're
going to change the story
a little bit slightly.
So just to bring us
back down to Earth.
I suggest you undertake
lots of liquid refreshment.
I'll see you in a half an hour.
[APPLAUSE]